13.
Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God.
The powers that be are ordained of God.
Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God, and they that resist shall
receive to themselves damnation. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil.
Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the
name. For he is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil,
be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain, for he is the minister of God,
a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. Wherefore ye must needs be subject,
not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake. For for this cause pay ye tribute also,
for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing.
Render therefore to all their dues, tribute to whom tribute is due, custom to whom custom,
fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. O, no man anything but to love one another,
for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. For this thou shalt not commit adultery,
thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, thou shalt not covet.
And if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying,
namely, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Love worketh no ill to his neighbor, therefore
love is the fulfilling of the law. And that, knowing the time, that now it is high time to
wake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. The night is
far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put
on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly, as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness,
not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ,
and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lusts thereof.
Chapter 14. Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations.
For one believeth that he may eat all things, another, who is weak, eateth herbs. Let not him
that eateth despise him that eateth not, and let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth,
for God hath received him. Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? To his own master
he standeth or falleth, yea, he shall be holden up, for God is able to make him stand.
One man esteemeth one day above another, another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully
persuaded in his own mind. He that regardeth the day regardeth it unto the Lord, and he that
eateth not the day to the Lord he doth not regard it. He that eateth eateth to the Lord,
for he giveth God thanks, and he that eateth not to the Lord he eateth not and giveth God thanks.
For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself. For whether we live,
we live unto the Lord, and whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Whether we live therefore or die,
we are the Lord's. For to this end Christ both died and rose and revived, that he might be Lord
both of the dead and living. But why dost thou judge thy brother, or why dost thou set it not
thy brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. For it is written,
As I live saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.
So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. Let us not therefore judge
one another any more, but judge this rather that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall
in his brother's way. I know and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus that there is nothing unclean
of itself, but to him that esteemeth anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean. But if thy
brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thou not charitably, destroy not him with thy meat,
for whom Christ died. Let not then your good be evil spoken of. For the kingdom of God is not
meat and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. For he that in these things
serveth Christ is acceptable to God and approved of men. Let us therefore follow after the things
which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another. For meat destroy not the work
of God. All things indeed are pure, but it is evil for that man who eateth with offense.
It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor anything whereby thy brother stumbleth
or is offended, or is made weak. Hast thou faith? Have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that
condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth. And he that doubteth is damned if he
eat, because he eateth not of faith. For whatsoever is not of faith is sin.